README.md, before:

# factoid-to-biopax-server

A java servlet based web-server to convert [factoid](https://github.com/PathwayCommons/factoid/) form data to BioPAX. It uses [Paxtools](https://github.com/BioPAX/Paxtools) to generate a biopax model.

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/metincansiper/factoid-to-biopax-server.git
cd factoid-to-biopax-server
mvn clean install
```

## Deploying to Tomcat7

The project uses Tomcat7 Maven Plugin to automate deployment process. You should have Apache Tomcat running on port 8080. You should have a user authenticated for both Tomcat and Maven. You would like to see "Tomcat Authentication" and "Maven Authentication" steps of [this tutorial](https://www.mkyong.com/maven/how-to-deploy-maven-based-war-file-to-tomcat/) for "Tomcat 7 example" if you have not authenticated a user yet. Server id in your ``settings.xml`` must be same with ``tomcat.server.name`` property in ``pom.xml``, otherwise you would like to overwrite or override (if possible not sure yet) this property.

After creating an authorized user you can run ``mvn tomcat7:deploy ``, ``mvn tomcat7:undeploy `` and ``mvn tomcat7:redeploy `` to manage deployment process.

## Deploying to Docker Container
You can deploy the server to a docker container by following the steps below. "<PORT>" must be replaced by the port number where the server is expected to be run. 

```
docker build -f Dockerfile -t factoid-to-biopax .
docker run -it --rm --name factoid-to-biopax --publish <PORT>:8080 factoid-to-biopax 
```
## Consuming the Service

After completing installation and deployment steps the server will be up and running at "http://localhost:8080/FriesToBiopaxServer" (You should update port number in case you use another one). You can send a post request to "http://localhost:8080/FactoidToBiopaxServer/ConvertToOwl" to consume the service. 

The service takes a String in JSON array format (see Input section below), converts it to BioPax format and returns a String to represent it.

The following is a sample Node.js client

```
let url = 'http://localhost:8080/FactoidToBiopaxServer/ConvertToOwl';
let content = fs.readFileSync('input/templates.json', 'utf8');

Promise.try( () => fetch( url, {
        method: 'POST',
        body:    content,
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' }
    } ) )
    .then( res => res.text() )
    .then( res => {
      // we have biopax result here as a String
      console.log(res);
    } );
```

## Input
TODO: Fill here with a sample input JSON array

Commit message:

Made TARGET_WAR_NAME configurable in build command

README.md, after:

# factoid-to-biopax-server

A java servlet based web-server to convert [factoid](https://github.com/PathwayCommons/factoid/) form data to BioPAX. It uses [Paxtools](https://github.com/BioPAX/Paxtools) to generate a biopax model.

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/metincansiper/factoid-to-biopax-server.git
cd factoid-to-biopax-server
mvn clean install
```

## Deploying to Tomcat7

The project uses Tomcat7 Maven Plugin to automate deployment process. You should have Apache Tomcat running on port 8080. You should have a user authenticated for both Tomcat and Maven. You would like to see "Tomcat Authentication" and "Maven Authentication" steps of [this tutorial](https://www.mkyong.com/maven/how-to-deploy-maven-based-war-file-to-tomcat/) for "Tomcat 7 example" if you have not authenticated a user yet. Server id in your ``settings.xml`` must be same with ``tomcat.server.name`` property in ``pom.xml``, otherwise you would like to overwrite or override (if possible not sure yet) this property.

After creating an authorized user you can run ``mvn tomcat7:deploy ``, ``mvn tomcat7:undeploy `` and ``mvn tomcat7:redeploy `` to manage deployment process.

## Deploying to Docker Container
You can deploy the server to a docker container by following the steps below. "<PORT>" must be replaced by the port number where the server is expected to be run. 

```
docker build -f Dockerfile -t factoid-to-biopax .
docker run -it --rm --name factoid-to-biopax --publish <PORT>:8080 factoid-to-biopax 
```

To create the war file with another name than "FactoidToBiopaxServer"(war name affects where the service is deployed) add ``--build-arg TARGET_WAR_NAME=<WAR_NAME>`` to the build command.

## Consuming the Service

After completing installation and deployment steps the server will be up and running at "http://localhost:8080/FriesToBiopaxServer" (You should update port number in case you use another one). You can send a post request to "http://localhost:8080/FactoidToBiopaxServer/ConvertToOwl" to consume the service. 

The service takes a String in JSON array format (see Input section below), converts it to BioPax format and returns a String to represent it.

The following is a sample Node.js client

```
let url = 'http://localhost:8080/FactoidToBiopaxServer/ConvertToOwl';
let content = fs.readFileSync('input/templates.json', 'utf8');

Promise.try( () => fetch( url, {
        method: 'POST',
        body:    content,
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' }
    } ) )
    .then( res => res.text() )
    .then( res => {
      // we have biopax result here as a String
      console.log(res);
    } );
```

## Input
TODO: Fill here with a sample input JSON array
